# GAMDetector
This project all combined creates a cohesive system to poll for user logins every 15 minutes to determine if a user has signed in outside of the US, CA, or MX and then disable the account.

This was one of my first major projects that I undertook at my current role. It was relatively early on in my Python journey and while I am really proud of what I accomplished here, I really love seeing how much more I have progressed. At the time, some of the concepts I included seemed so foreign and impossible and going back through it now, it feels like pretty standard fare stuff. While I did rely on AI input to solve some issues, I learned a lot and still had opportunities to stretch my limits of problem-solving. It was fun going back through a year ago and updating the logic on the IP address checks, but I have not touched much of the other stuff so it's still a bit odd and definitely not up to par with the qualitfy I have now. I love this project for where I was and seeing how far I have come. It gets me excited to think about where I will be next year and the years beyond that. I also would not have created NoCA without GAM detector, which is the system I am most proud of at this point in my career.

-- How it works --

Unfortunately, due to the nature of Google's log writing that is accessible by GAM, there is up to a 3 hour delay of when a login occurs and when GAM can see it. So every 15 minutes GAM is used to poll for new logins from 3 hours ago. It then checks a few things. First the IP address used to login is checked against a few items such as is it private, is it already one that has been seen with a json cache file, and if it's in a csv of known vpn ranges that are untrusted. If it passes those checks, then it uses the IPInfo API to get the country based on the IP address. If it isn't in the US, CA, or MX it will write the username to a csv file of names to disable. Those names are iterated through and if student, the parents will be emailed so we can get in contact with the student, if staff we are alerted and reach out to the staff member.

The list of users gets piped to a file which is opened by a PS1 file that is triggered on the server. This ps1 file looks at each user account and converts the email to a format that matches what is in our Active Directory. Invoke-Command is used to remotely disable each user's account on our domain controller. 

The final file takes a list of users that builds up throughout the day. It builds an HTML table with some light styling to be sent in an email to the network admins each day so we have a record of accounts that were suspended.
